---
permalink: /rover
title: 'RASC-AL RoboOps 2015 Rover (Extracurricular Team Project)'
---

*Key Skills: Design for Manufacturing (focus on waterjet and welding),
Team Leadership*

The RASC-AL Robo-OPS competition is a NASA-run intercollegiate
competition in which each collegiate team builds a robot to navigate a
sizable swath of simulated Martian and lunar terrain and collect small
painted rocks scattered within. The robots are teleoperated from the
home universities, and the competition takes place at the Johnson Space
Center. I led the mechanical subteam for this project in the 2015
season, and I worked with my teammates to redesign much of the previous
year\'s robot, specifically the frame, arm mount, and end effector claw,
as well as design a new component, a pitch-control mechanism for the
robot\'s HD camera. These pieces were all cut from sheet aluminum using
a waterjet, and permanently joined using TIG welding.

![](./media/Rover/image1.png){width="6.5in"
height="5.788194444444445in"}

## Frame 

One of the first things we did was rede-sign the frame for the robot to
be lighter. This frame consists of two trussed walls, with several
places to attach wheel mounts and devices such as cooling fans. The two
sides are joined by 13 struts, which provide rigidity to the structure.
One of the main challenges we resolved was ensuring free motion of our
wheels' passive averaging system, which ensured that four wheels were on
the ground under almost all operating conditions.

![](./media/Rover/image2.png){width="5.0in"
height="3.067283464566929in"}

## Claw 

Another major upgrade we made was in the claw end effector of our robot.
The prior year's claw had been cut out of thick 3/8-in. aluminum, and we
made the fingers much thinner, reducing the thickness to 1/8-in. This
allowed us to dig (essentially cut) into the ground, as shown to the
bottom left, making the rock retrieval routine simpler for the operator.
We also implemented a curved upper hand, with fingers curling back more
as they approached the edges of the hand. This helped prevent rocks from
slipping out of the hand once grasped. Our final improvement was to
improve to a high-quality Dynamixel servomotor.

![](./media/Rover/image3.jpeg){width="3.0in"
height="2.3677854330708663in"}![](./media/Rover/image4.jpeg){width="3.0in"
height="2.249679571303587in"}

![](./media/Rover/image5.png){width="2.729468503937008in"
height="4.0in"}![](./media/Rover/image6.png){width="2.9089337270341207in"
height="4.0in"}

## Arm Mount 

Another task, on which I primarily worked, was redesign of the robot's
arm mount to be lighter, without losing strength. I achieved this by
using a truss design, as well as inverting the bearing block orientation
in the shoulder joint (not shown).

Besides the improvement this design had on the project, this piece is of
particular importance to me as a designer, as its tabbed interlock
system (reinforced with TIG welding) became the basis for my press-fit
aluminum sculpture technique.

![](./media/Rover/image7.png){width="5.0in"
height="4.08724300087489in"}

## Camera Mount 

A major change in our robot was the integration of a Panasonic Lumix GH3
camera, which al-lowed us to take HD video and 4K images, which would be
used to scour the field for tiny colored rocks. To facilitate usage of
this camera on the field, I designed a four-bar linkage system to stably
control the camera's pitch, in-creasing the range of available scenery
to analyze.

![](./media/Rover/image8.png){width="5.0in"
height="4.015657261592301in"}
