---
permalink: /undergrad
title: 'Power Grid Stability and Liquid Metal Recapillarity (Undergraduate Research)'
---

## Power Grid Stability

*Key Skills: Stochastic Modeling*

In this work, I leveraged the Fokker-Planck equation to characterize the
stochastic frequency properties of power grids whose frequencies are
controlled by governors possessing a deadband.

Illustration of deadband: power deviations by the governor in response
to frequency changes

<img src="/media/Undergrad/image1.png" style="width: 24vw;" />

Probability density function created using Fokker-Planck analysis, of
the joint distribution of power deviation and frequency deviation:

<img src="/media/Undergrad/image2.png" style="width: 40vw;" />

<u>Citation:</u>

P. Vorobev, D. M. Greenwood, **J. H. Bell**, J. W. Bialek, P. C. Taylor
and K. Turitsyn, \"Deadbands, Droop, and Inertia Impact on Power System
Frequency Distribution,\" in *IEEE Transactions on Power Systems*, vol.
34, no. 4, pp. 3098-3108, July 2019, doi: [10.1109/TPWRS.2019.2895547](https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2019.2895547).

## Liquid Metal Recapillarity

*Key Skills: Experimental Design, Image Analysis*

In this work, I iterated on the idea of using an electrical potential to
reduce the oxide layer of a liquid metal alloy, eutectic Gallium-Indium
(EGaIn). Using this process, I developed methods to form the liquid
metal on sheets, as well as a method for creating a uniform sheet of the
liquid metal using a glass test-tube-based applicator which I designed.

While doing this, I discovered that the retreat velocity of a liquid
metal interface during the reduction process is proportional to the
current density at that interface, which I characterized using a set of
experiments utilizing automated video analysis to measure retreat
velocity and estimate current density.

Diagram of Method and Example of Formed Liquid Metal Sheet:

<img src="/media/Undergrad/image3.png" style="width: 32vw;" />

Illustration of Method and of Experiments to Characterize Retreat
Characteristics:

<img src="/media/Undergrad/image4.png" style="width: 65vw;" />

Velocity-Current Density Proportionality Characterization, and local imperfections in the interface:

<img src="/media/Undergrad/image5.png" style="width: 50vw;" />

<u>Citation:</u>

Khan M. R., **Bell J.**, Dickey M. D. (2016). Localized Instabilities of
Liquid Metal Films via In-Plane Recapillarity. *Adv. Mater.
Interfaces*, 3: 1600546. doi: [10.1002/admi.201600546](https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201600546)
