---
permalink: /design/yoyo/
title: Mass-Manufactured Yo-Yo "00ink" (MIT 2.008 Design and Manufacturing II Team Project)
subtitle: Key Skills: Design for Manufacturing (focus on thermoforming)
---

*Key Skills: Design for Manufacturing (focus on thermoforming)*

This is a class project for 2.008 with the purpose of teaching design
for manufacturing (DFM) and manufacturing using primarily injection
molding and thermoforming, with the specific application of
manufacturing a yo-yo. Our team, Team *00oink*, designed a yo-yo based
on a piggy bank. As such, the product design was largely guided by
aesthetics. I worked along with my teammates on the general design of
the yo-yo, and I specialized in thermoforming manufacturing and
post-production. As such, I implemented the design for our coin window
component, designing and 3D printing a mold for it. In addition, I
optimized and ran the thermoforming operations, as well as designed a
masking system for painting the interior side of the coin shapes in the
window.

![](./media/YoYo/image1.png){width="5.0in"
height="4.009081364829396in"}

## Thermoforming 

I worked primarily on design and execution of the thermoforming process
for our yo-yo's coin window piece, depicted above. To maximize
thermoforming quality on the exterior of the window, a cavity mold is
used. This mold was made using a Formlabs Form 2, an SLA 3D printer,
with their basic clear photoresin.

The mold shape was produced in CAD using the Mold Tools toolbox in
Solidworks, and was further adapted to fit in the vacuum forming
machine. Subsequently, vacuum holes we inserted on the underside to
remove air, especially from under detailed parts of the window. This
vacuum forming process is depicted at the bottom right.

Besides the high detail required in our coins, a key design requirement
was that the coin window could be easily aligned with, and lock securely
to, the rest of the yo-yo. This was achieved by having a matching
tab/notch set between the window and the outer pig shell piece.

In addition to design for the thermoformed part and its mold, I worked
to optimize the thermoforming process parameters.

![](./media/YoYo/image2.png){width="3.0753051181102364in"
height="2.5in"}![](./media/YoYo/image3.png){width="2.8572375328083988in"
height="2.5in"}

![](./media/YoYo/image4.png){width="2.4487784339457566in"
height="2.5in"}

![](./media/YoYo/image5.png){width="4.829721128608924in"
height="4.0in"}

![A blueprint of a diagram AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/YoYo/image6.png){width="6.5in"
height="4.20625in"}
